“Good” and “Bad” Diversity in Majority Vote Ensembles

Gavin Brown and Ludmila I. Kuncheva, 2010

* "In this work we adopt the perspective that a diversity measure should be naturally defined as a consequence of two decisions in the design of the ensemble learning problem: the choice of error function, and the choice of combiner function."
* "for particular choices of error/combiner function, a definition of diversity naturally emerges."
    * For a regression problem, for which the squared loss has been tuned, and the ensemble prediction has been obtained as a weighted average of the model predictions, the Ambiguity Decomposition is
* A main aim of this paper is to determine whether an Ambiguity Decomposition can be formulated for a majority vote combiner, when the zero-one loss is used to measure divergence.
    * "The majority vote error has a direct relationship with two components of diversity, measured by the disagreement between the classifier decision ht(x) and the ensemble decision H(x). We label the two diversity components “good” and “bad” diversity. The good diversity measures the disagreement on data points where the ensemble is correct—and due to the negative sign, any disagreement on these points increases the gain relative to the average individual error. The bad diversity measures the disagreement on data points where the ensemble is incorrect—here, the diversity term has a positive sign, so any disagreement reduces the gain relative to individual error."
    * "Another way to think of this is as the number of votes “wasted” by the ensemble members. For an arbitrary data point x, assume the ensemble is already correct. If there is little disagreement, then several votes have been ‘wasted’, since the same correct decision would have been taken had some classifiers changed their votes. This is the “good” diversity term, measuring disagreement where the ensemble is already correct—more disagreement equates to fewer wasted votes. The “bad” diversity term measures the opposite: disagreement where the ensemble is incorrect—any disagreement equates to a wasted vote, as the individual did not have any effect on the ensemble decision. Thus, increasing good diversity and decreasing bad diversity is equivalent to reducing the number of ‘wasted’ votes."